Reviewer 1 of IROS 2025 submission 2549

Comments to the author
======================

Summary
This paper aims to address the challenge of enforcing hard
safety constraints when deploying RL algorithms in the real
world. The paper presents a method for reward calibration
using constraint manifolds, an algorithm for learning to
adapt parameters of a Kalman filter for localization, and
an algorithm to determine the safe feasible region using
reachability analysis.


Strengths
	1	The paper addresses an important and timely
problem for safe deployment of RL systems, which is of
broad interest to the community. 
	2	The experimental results of the combined
framework show improved safety outcomes and higher rewards
compared to benchlines, though there is insufficient
discussion about the trade-off with computation time.


Weaknesses:
	1	The main weakness of this paper is the poor
readability. This paper requires major proofreading
revisions and is missing many definitions. For example,
	(a)	Many equations are missing variable
definitions, to the point that the methodology cannot be
followed. E.g., \alpha is used in both equations 3 and 4
without definition, it is unclear if they refer to the same
variable. The penalty function P in equation 4 is not
defined, and its relation to equation 3 is not made clear.
The experiments section IV equation “c = (D_hazard -
D_hazard)*gamma” is meaningless and suggests c=0. Equation
5 maximizes over an undefined variable “y” which should be
“t”. 
	(b)	There are numerous syntax errors. For
example, Missing words: In section II, “Due to the presence
of non-holonomic in many robotic systems” is missing the
word “constraints”. In section II, “affine control system”
should be “control affine system”. Figure 1 has a typo:
“constrains” should be “constraints”. There are numerous
sentence fragments, e.g., “Due to the inability to compute
the optimal feasible value function through Monte Carlo
estimation via environmental interaction in an offline
setting.”
	(c)	Acronyms PCPO and RCPO need to be defined
in section I.
	(d)	The reward space R is not defined when
defining the Constrained MDP in Section II. The notation
for the state constraints is atypical. 
	(e)	Text in the subscript of equation variables
should usually be formatted with \text in LaTeX for
readability. 
	(f)	Formatting issue: References are cut off
between pages 7 and 8.
	2	The contribution of this paper is not
clear.
	(a)	The paper presents three apparently
separate methods. The first section introduces a reward
calibration based on constraint manifolds but the penalty
definition is not clearly explained. The second and third
contributions appear to be addressing the requirements of
prior safe RL algorithms, i.e., (A) accurate environmental
information and (B) accurate dynamics models by (A)
estimating the safe feasible space through reachability
analysis and (B) learning to adapt the parameters of a
Kalman filter for localization. It is not clear if the
latter two contributions are completely independent of the
manifold constraints. If they are independent, the paper
lacks discussion of how these methods compare to existing
methods for localization and determination of feasible
regions. The paper also lacks ablation studies to show
their individual impacts. 
	(b)	It is not clear how the proposed method
improves over prior constraint manifold-based methods, e.g.
[19]. In section III-A, it is not clear how the penalty
function is constructed from the constraints manifold. The
methodology section is also missing citations. 
	3	The experiments are not clearly explained. 
	(a)	The equation “c = (D_hazard -
D_hazard)*gamma” is meaningless and suggests c=0. 
	(b)	The baseline algorithms are neither
explained nor cited in Section IV. It appears from Table 1
that the proposed algorithm generally outperforms the safe
RL baselines by accruing higher reward and lower cost, but
requires a longer computation time. This trade-off is not
discussed.
	(c)	Figure 4b shows that the ROS platform
experiments achieved good localization, but the paper does
not clarify how much of this performance comes from the
proposed learning method compared to a standard Kalman
filter.

Overall, the paper requires significant rewriting to
clearly articulate the motivations and methodologies.
Additionally, stronger comparisons to existing methods and
ablation studies are needed to contextualize the
contribution and demonstrate its value.
